<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.1.4" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>Kindle KOA2 (Kindle Oasis, 9th generation, 2017)</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
dfn.lyxnoun {
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
h1.title {
font-family: sans-serif;
font-weight: bold;
font-size: x-large;
margin-bottom: 1ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.date {
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.standard {
margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
h2.section {
font-family: sans-serif;
font-weight: bold;
font-size: large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: left;

}
ul.itemize {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
ol.enumerate {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
h3.subsection {
font-family: sans-serif;
font-weight: bold;
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
dl.description dt { font-weight: bold; }
 div.toc {
   margin: 2em 0em;
   border-style: solid;
   border-width: 2px 0px;
   padding: 1em 0em;
 }
 h2.tochead { font-size: x-large; font-weight: bold; }
 div.lyxtoc-0 {
   margin: 2em 0em 0em 0em;
   font-size: xx-large;
   font-weight: bold;
 }
 div.lyxtoc-1 {
   margin: 1em 0em 0em 0em;
   font-size: x-large;
   font-weight: bold;
 }
 div.lyxtoc-2 {
   margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 1em;
   font-size: large;
   font-weight: normal;
 }
 div.lyxtoc-3 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; font-size: medium; }
 div.lyxtoc-4 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
 div.lyxtoc-5 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
 div.lyxtoc-6 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
 a.tocentry {
   text-decoration: none;
   color: black;
 }
 a.tocentry:visited { color: black; }


</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="title"><a id='magicparlabel-1' />Kindle KOA2 (Kindle Oasis, 9th generation, 2017)</h1>
<div class="date"><a id='magicparlabel-91' />03/10/2018</div>

<div class='toc'><h2 class='tochead section'>Table of Contents</h2>


<div class='lyxtoc-1'><div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-3' class='tocentry'>1 Firmware versions</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-9' class='tocentry'>2 Highly recommended</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-14' class='tocentry'>3 Recommended</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-21' class='tocentry'>4 Install a <em>Factory Use Only</em> firmware build</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-30' class='tocentry'>5 Install Device Jail Break</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-41' class='tocentry'>6 Install the Jailbreak Survival Code</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-51' class='tocentry'>7 Update to consumer firmware</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-57' class='tocentry'>8 Notice</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-62' class='tocentry'>9 Experimental KOA2 Packages</a>


<div class='lyxtoc-3'><a href='#magicparlabel-65' class='tocentry'>9.1 Available</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-3'><a href='#magicparlabel-72' class='tocentry'>9.2 Packaging Tools</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-3'><a href='#magicparlabel-81' class='tocentry'>9.3 KUAL Extensions</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-3' /><span class="section_label">1</span> Firmware versions</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-4' />The process described here applies to only two firmware versions.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-5' />If the Kindle has either of these versions installed when first taken out of the box:</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-6' /><li class="itemize_item">5.9.0.5.1</li>
<li class="itemize_item">5.9.0.6</li>
</ul>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-8' />Then this process should work.</div>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-9' /><span class="section_label">2</span> Highly recommended</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-10' />To retain control of the Kindle firmware version, in the topmost visible level of USB storage, add the OTA blocking directory name. The blocking directory name is:
<br />

<em>update.bin.tmp.partial</em>
<br />

Use that exact name, no additional extension.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-11' />There is no guarantee that this will block the download of an OTA update. </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-12' />There have not been any firmware versions reported (yet) that can over-ride this blocking. </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-13' />It is possible that Amazon/Lab126 will change this situation at any time, without notice.</div>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-14' /><span class="section_label">3</span> Recommended</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-15' />The following changes are all in support of recovering the Kindle should start-up problems occur.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-16' />Each can prevent the export of USB storage until a touch screen action is taken. Most start-up problems occur before the touch screen is up and working.</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-17' /><li class="itemize_item">Register the Kindle. </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Remove any passcode protection.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Remove any parental controls.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Have special offers removed.</li>
</ul>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-21' /><span class="section_label">4</span> Install a <em>Factory Use Only</em> firmware build</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-22' />The firmware version numbers before and after this step are not significant.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-23' />The use of the word <em>Update</em> means the label on the button in the settings menu, it does not describe the action performed.</div>

<ol class="enumerate"><a id='magicparlabel-24' /><li class="enumerate_item">Download the firmware image that was intended to only be used on the factory production line: <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/RyfAaK/update_kindle_oasis_9th_factory_5.9.0.6.bin">Factory-5.9.0.6</a>.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">md5sum: 18624db8c1838ec2b5b8bfb3406ac041</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Place in the topmost visible level of USB storage.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Remove USB cable.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Home -&gt; Menu -&gt; Settings -&gt; Menu -&gt; Update (Your Kindle - UYK)</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Wait.
<br />

Do not panic. This factory image package may take as long as 5 minutes to install.</li>
</ol>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-30' /><span class="section_label">5</span> Install Device Jail Break</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-31' />Customer firmware versions other than the two listed above can not (yet) be jail broken.</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-32' /><li class="itemize_item">Download the <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/U3AVtU/main-htmlviewer.tar.gz">Device Jail Break</a></li>
</ul>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-33' />Do not let your PC open the archive or otherwise convert it to a <em>safe</em> archive. The archive content structure makes it a tar bomb, it is suppose to be a tar bomb, that is what makes it work. Owners of <dfn class='lyxnoun'>MacOS</dfn> systems should be aware that the default settings will open and convert this archive to a <em>safe</em> archive, which prevents it from working as intended.</div>

<ol class="enumerate"><a id='magicparlabel-34' /><li class="enumerate_item">md5sum: 8d4ef0528bc1d72576b890a72840780a
<br />

This value will match if the download was without error and if your PC has not tried to safely re-pack it.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Place in topmost visible level of USB storage.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Safely remove the USB cable.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">In the search bar of the home screen, enter:
<br />

;installHtml
<br />

The semi-colon is part of the command and the command is case sensitive.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Did you have a <em>JailBroken</em> document appear on your Kindle?</li>
</ol>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-39' /><li class="itemize_item"><dfn class='lyxnoun'>Yes it did appear:</dfn> The device jail break is now installed, continue with the next section.</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><dfn class='lyxnoun'>No it did not appear:</dfn> To be certain, use your PC to look for it in the /documents folder. In this case something unexpected has happened, contact the developers.</li>
</ul>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-41' /><span class="section_label">6</span> Install the Jailbreak Survival Code</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-42' />This package has also been known as the <em>hotfix</em> package.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-43' />This installs both the Bridge Code that auto-reinstalls the device jailbreak and it installs the application keys required to run some of the add-in applications.</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-44' /><li class="itemize_item"><span style='font-family:sans-serif;'>Note:</span> This step may have to be repeated after every change in registration status.</li>
</ul>

<ol class="enumerate"><a id='magicparlabel-45' /><li class="enumerate_item">Download the <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/Srz2x2/Update_jailbreak_hotfix_1.15_koa2.bin">Jailbreak Survival Code</a></li>
<li class="enumerate_item">md5sum: 19857c59d350470afff27f4249be8bac</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Place in the topmost visible level of USB storage.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Safely remove the USB cable.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Home -&gt; Menu -&gt; Settings -&gt; Menu -&gt; Update (Your Kindle - UYK)</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Watch the screen while waiting.
<br />

The wait should only be that involved in any package installation.</li>
</ol>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-51' /><span class="section_label">7</span> Update to consumer firmware</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-52' />The currently posted Oasis-2 firmware versions by Amazon are:</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-53' /><li class="itemize_item"><a href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/firmwaredownloads/update_kindle_all_new_oasis_5.9.2.bin">KOA2_5.9.2</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/firmwaredownloads/update_kindle_all_new_oasis_5.9.2.0.1.bin">KOA2_5.9.2.0.1</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/firmwaredownloads/update_kindle_all_new_oasis_5.9.4.bin">KOA2_5.9.4</a></li>
</ul>

<div style='height:5ex'></div>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-57' /><span class="section_label">8</span> Notice</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-58' />Any other <em>update_*.bin</em> name format package used <dfn class='lyxnoun'>must</dfn> be re-installed after an Amazon update.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-59' />Only the <em>Device Jail Break</em> and components of the <em>Jail Break Survival Code</em> are auto-reinstalled.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-60' />In the usual case, KUAL extensions do not need to be re-installed, but if anything seems to be broken, re-install it.</div>


<div style='height:5ex'></div>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-62' /><span class="section_label">9</span> Experimental KOA2 Packages</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-63' />All of these packages are built to install using the UYK (Update Your Kindle) menu entry.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-64' />The Mobileread Package Installer (MrPI) is not required for installing these packages.</div>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-65' /><span class="subsection_label">9.1</span> Available</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-66' /><li class="itemize_item">USB&nbsp;Networking Includes both ssh and telnet servers. Many bonus items also included. Note: Without an application launcher (KUAL), you will have to use the ;un searchbar command to toggle between USBnetworking and USBmass storage modes.

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-67' /><li class="itemize_item">Release post: <a href="https://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=186645">USB Networking</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Install: <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/DhYefd/Update_usbnet_0.21.N_install_mx7_koa2_nomax.bin">USB Networking install</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Status: Tested, working.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Uninstall: <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/JVtudU/Update_usbnet_0.21.N_uninstall_koa2_nomax.bin]">USB Networking uninstall</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Status: Not tested.</li>
</ul>
</li></ul>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-72' /><span class="subsection_label">9.2</span> Packaging Tools</h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-73' />Tools and utilities for the examination and maintenance of <em>update_*.bin</em> packages.</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-74' /><li class="itemize_item">KindleTool Binaries KindleTool both creates new and opens existing <em>update_*.bin</em> format packages. Both those of Amazon/Lab126 and those of Mobileread.

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-75' /><li class="itemize_item">Release post: <a href="https://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=187880">NiLuJe's KindleTool</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Current builds: <a href="https://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=225030">KindleTool for Linux, MacOS and Windows</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Status: Working, in-use</li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item">Repackaging Script The script contains a table format listing of Mobileread update_*.bin packages.

<dl class='description'><a id='magicparlabel-79' /><dt class="description_label">Script:</dt>
<dd class="description_item"> <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/mZkvMb/mkpkgs.sh.zip">mkpkgs batch script</a></dd>
<dt class="description_label">Status:</dt>
<dd class="description_item"> Working, in use.</dd>
</dl>
</li></ul>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-81' /><span class="subsection_label">9.3</span> KUAL Extensions</h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-82' />Since a usable version of KUAL does not exist, KUAL extensions must be started using the searchbar command: ;log runme along with a custom script in USB storage.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-83' />A collection of &ldquo;RUNME.sh&rdquo; scripts is being made in this thread: <a href="https://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=292382">Collection of runme scripts</a></div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-84' /><li class="itemize_item">Kindle Terminal<dfn class='lyxnoun'> </dfn>Provides an interactive, command line, terminal with on-screen keyboard.

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-85' /><li class="itemize_item">Release Post:<dfn class='lyxnoun'> </dfn><a href="https://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=179286">Terminal Emulator for Touchscreen Kindles</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Public repository: <a href="https://github.com/bfabiszewski/kterm">Source code repository</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">Archive: <a href="https://www.adrive.com/public/P46YNY/kterm-kindle-2.4.zip">kTerm</a></li>
<li class="itemize_item">md5sum: 5f943d7928d6fa206514241a7f245081</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Status: A working runme script has been contributed.</li>
</ul>
</li></ul>
</body>
</html>
